release_branch/v2.6.0 (#194)
fivetran/dbt_fivetran_log: DECISIONLOG.md

Reviewer: Let's add a decisionlog for the variable materialization of the log staging model based on setting the start date variable.

## Connection recovery in `fivetran_platform__transformation_run_log`
The `connection_ids` and `connection_names` fields are primarily derived from the `schedule.integrations` array in the run log. This array is only populated for integrated schedules, so the majority of transformation runs (custom and cron schedules) leave it empty.

For QUICKSTART transformations, the `job_name` in `transformation_runs` reliably follows the `<connector type>/<connection name>` format. When `schedule.integrations` is empty, we recover the single connection by parsing the connection name from `job_name` and matching it to a connection in the same destination. This is a best-effort, single-connection recovery: QUICKSTART runs that target multiple connections always populate `schedule.integrations`, so they are unaffected. The fallback is scoped to QUICKSTART only, since other transformation types (such as DBT_CORE) use user-defined names that do not follow this format.

## Redshift connection limit in `fivetran_platform__transformation_run_log`

> The `connection_ids` and `connection_names` fields are derived by unnesting the `schedule.integrations` array from the run log. Most warehouses use a native lateral-unnest function with no cap, but Redshift has no such primitive, so the `fivetran_log_connection_ids_unnested` macro iterates the array indices with a generated numbers table that produces `0-99` — capping connections per transformation job at **100 on Redshift only**. A job referencing more than 100 connections has the overflow silently dropped (the run still appears, just with an incomplete connection list). We chose 100 based on production data: as of 06/2026 the largest Redshift job referenced 32 connections and only 19 jobs (9 destinations) exceeded 10, so 100 leaves comfortable headroom. If the limit is ever reached, the generator can be extended (for example, by adding a hundreds digit to the cross join).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `connection_ids` and `connection_names` fields are derived by unnesting the `schedule.integrations` array from the run log. Most warehouses use a native lateral-unnest function with no cap, but Redshift has no such primitive, so the `fivetran_log_connection_ids_unnested` macro iterates the array indices with a generated numbers table that produces `0-99` — capping connections per transformation job at **100 on Redshift only**. A job referencing more than 100 connections has the overflow silently dropped (the run still appears, just with an incomplete connection list). We chose 100 as this should leave comfortable headroom.
```

## Null `started_at` for older transformation runs
The `started_at` and `ended_at` fields in `fivetran_platform__transformation_run_log` are parsed from the top-level `startTime` and `endTime` keys in the run log. Older transformation run events do not include these top-level keys; instead, the timestamps are nested under `result.stepResults[0]`. For those older runs, `started_at` (and therefore `duration`) may be null, even though the run did capture a start time.

> We have chosen not to address this for now, since it only affects older/stale data. If customers report null `started_at` or `duration` values, we can coalesce the top-level keys with the nested `result.stepResults[0].startTime` and `result.stepResults[0].endTime` values to recover them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `started_at` and `ended_at` fields in `fivetran_platform__transformation_run_log` are parsed from the top-level `startTime` and `endTime` keys in the run log. Older transformation run events do not include these top-level keys; instead, the timestamps are nested under `result.stepResults[0]`. For those older runs, `started_at` (and therefore `duration`) may be null, even though the run did capture a start time. We have chosen not to address this for now, since it only affects older/stale data.
```

## Connector SDK log source
Not all customers have the `connector_sdk_log` source table, as it is only populated for accounts using the Fivetran Connector SDK. This source and its downstream logic are controlled by the `fivetran_platform_using_connector_sdk_log` variable, which defaults to `true`. If your destination does not contain the `connector_sdk_log` table, set this variable to `false` in your root `dbt_project.yml` to disable the source and exclude Connector SDK events from `fivetran_platform__errors_and_warnings`:

```yml
vars:
  fivetran_platform_using_connector_sdk_log: false ## Default is true. Set to false if the connector_sdk_log source table is not present in your destination.

> ```

Reviewer: This belongs in the README, not in the DECISIONLOG
